Joe: Hi everyone.
My name's Joe Politz.
I'm teaching faculty at UC San
Diego in the computer science
and engineering department.
If you're watching this, I'm
expecting that you're an incoming
transfer student this fall into
the computer science department.
And what I want to talk about is some
material I have planned for this summer
to help you prepare a little bit for that.
So I teach a lot of the lower division
programming courses in the department.
And so I'm one of, you
know, many instructors.
We have a lot of great, great instructors
here, but I've taught enough of the
courses that I have a decent handle on
a lot of the material in that sequence.
And so I wanna talk
about that a little bit.
Because you may or may not have
credit for some of those courses.
And this summer might get you up to speed,
review, introduce some content that will
help you with getting started in the fall.
So incoming first year
students or freshmen to UCSD
CSE take one of two courses.
They either take CSE8A
and  then 8B or CSE 11.
So sort of two tracks.
And then CSE 11 and 8B sort of
end at the same place, just a two
course versus a one course sequence.
CSE 11 is a called our
accelerated introduction.
And it is about object oriented
programming and it's taught in Java.
CSE 12 is basic data structures
also taught in Java and then
these feed into other courses
that lead into the upper division.
So CSE 30 is our systems
programming course.
So assembly and C programming
sort of how computers work.
CSE 100 is an advanced data structures
course and sort of after this, a lot
of the upper division courses open up.
And then our math sequence within
the CSE coded courses is CSE 20,
which is discrete math and CSE 21,
which is algorithms and complexity.
And those are requirements for CSE 100.
So one other course CSE15L it's
our lab course and that course is
about some UCSD specific systems.
But also about just
programming systems and.
Some of the tools we use on a day to
day basis in some of the other courses
there's nothing really outside of
UCSD that corresponds to that credit.
So it's unlikely that any of you
have credit for it already, and
I'm teaching that in the fall.
So it's also very likely that you'll
see me teaching that in the fall.
This summer I'm focusing on
stuff from CSE 11 and CSE 12,
cuz it's nicely consolidated.
It's all in Java.
There's some preexisting
material I can share with you.
And it's also the place where
there's sort of the most variety
and who has credit for what.
And also a place where it's nice to talk
about having a solid foundation based
on how we approach those courses here.
So my goals for this
summer are really twofold.
One is provide those resources.
Which are gonna come in two main forms.
So we have a online version of the CSE11
materials and that includes videos and
assignments and an online textbook.
So that link.
Has been provided to you in email.
And so that's something I want you to be
able to see, you can work through this.
It's all, it's all free and open online.
And then be able to ask questions about
it and things like that this summer.
And then also I want to
provide weekly materials, oops,
weekly materials, which include videos
like this one that will actually
be like about a programming topic.
and then a quiz or problem of the week
where you'll actually complete some quiz
questions about a topic or do a small
programming assignment, sort of in the
style of our programming assignments here.
And then we'll have the opportunity
to talk about and go over that.
So those are the kinds of resources.
And then the other thing I want to have
is some time for us to do Q and a, this.
and so there's a discord that
you'll all be invited to join.
So discord is like a chat server.
We can go on and have a user
account and chat with other people.
And so I want to be able to be there so
you can ask content questions, right?
Just like, ask me about Java interfaces
or something you read in the online
textbook or something like that.
Also, you know, like course and advising
questions that you might have for me
that are useful to ask of a faculty
member you can and should ask our
advising staff advising questions.
They're amazing.
And they know a lot more than me,
about a lot of things about our
internal systems but sometimes about
like the interaction of content and
prerequisites and things like that.
I'll have a useful perspective.
And that's also related to talking about
like petitions and incoming credit.
Again, the advising staff know
a lot about this and in many, or
maybe most cases more than I do.
But I also know the content
of our courses really well.
And so I can talk about if
you should ask for credit for
particular courses or if you'd have
a good case and things like that.
So part of my goal this summer is also
just to give you that information and
give you some advice on the way to
sort of start with the most appropriate
credit for whatever your background is.
So those are my goals.
In terms of reaching me I'm gonna be
sending you an email similar to the
one this  video is in every week.
You can email me at jpolitz@eng.ucsd.edu.
It's useful to me if you mention
in somewhere in the subject or
early in the email that you're
an incoming transfer student.
So I, I, I know who it's coming from.
And also if you want to chat on zoom,
on my website, I have a contact page,
so that's the URL and I have open
zoom office hours on Tuesdays from
9-10am and  the link is at that page.
There's actually several faculty
that do these open office
hours throughout the year.
And, and some of us do them in the summer
as well for incoming students or existing
students to ask advising questions.
And so that's a time where at least
for me, you can just come find me.
I'm, I'm always available at that
time for you to stop by say hello,
ask questions, things like that.
And then in terms of a like a call to
action for you, for things you can get
started on right now,  I sent along
with this a survey, just to get some
information about what courses you
have credit for, what you're interested
in this summer, what some of your
goals are for the summer coming in.
And I've also per posted
the first activity.
So there's a quiz on Gradescope and
there's an invite code for Gradescope in
the message that this video comes with.
And so you can go do the first quiz.
A note about this quiz is that it's
intended to be somewhat challenging.
You might not have seen the kinds of
questions that are asked in this quiz.
I'm using it in part to
sort of calibrate like.
What people know what people
don't know and things like that.
So there's absolutely no problem.
If you're completely bewildered by
some of the questions in this quiz.
It's great if they make sense to you,
but you know there's a lot of you
and, and all of you have different
background, so don't it it's completely
expected that there's a lot of
questions that, that there's several
questions that could be really hard.
And then of course, if you're interested
in being on there sign up for disc.
Because that's a place where we can
chat and do do Q&A and stuff like that.
So that's what you can do to get started.
That's how you can reach me.
And those are my goals for the summer.
And you should be expecting
weekly emails from me like this.
Thanks.
And looking forward to working with you
with you this summer and in the fall.